---------------------------
| THE THREAT OF SUBSTITUTES. 
---------------------------

A substitute performs the same or a similar function as an industry’s product by a different means. 
Videoconferencing is a substitute for travel.
Plastic is a substitute for aluminum. E-mail is a substitute for express mail. 
Sometimes, the threat of substitution is downstream or indirect, when a substitute replaces a buyer
industry’s product. For example, lawn-care products and services are threatened when multifamily homes in urban areas
substitute for single-family homes in the suburbs. Software sold to agents is threatened when airline and travel websites
substitute for travel agents.
Substitutes are always present, but they are easy to overlook because they may appear to be very different from the
industry’s product: To someone searching for a Father’s Day gift, neckties and power tools may be substitutes. It is a substitute to do without, to purchase a used product rather than
a new one, or to do it yourself (bring the service or product
in-house).
When the threat of substitutes is high, industry profi tability suffers. Substitute products or services limit an industry’s
profi t potential by placing a ceiling on prices. If an industry
does not distance itself from substitutes through product
performance, marketing, or other means, it will suffer in
terms of profi tability – and often growth potential.
Substitutes not only limit profi ts in normal times, they
also reduce the bonanza an industry can reap in good times.
In emerging economies, for example, the surge in demand
for wired telephone lines has been capped as many consumers opt to make a mobile telephone their fi rst and only
phone line.

The threat of a substitute is high if:

1. It offers an attractive price-performance trade-off to the
-----------------------------------------------------------------
industry’s product. The better the relative value of the substitute, the tighter is the lid on an industry’s profi t potential. For example, conventional providers of long-distance
telephone service have suffered from the advent of inexpensive internet-based phone services such as Vonage and
Skype. Similarly, video rental outlets are struggling with the
emergence of cable and satellite video-on-demand services,
online video rental services such as Netfl ix, and the rise of
internet video sites like Google’s YouTube.

2. The buyer’s cost of switching to the substitute is low.
-----------------------------------------------------------
Switching from a proprietary, branded drug to a generic
drug usually involves minimal costs, for example, which is
why the shift to generics (and the fall in prices) is so substantial and rapid.
