
------------------------------
| Barriers to entry.
------------------------------
Entry barriers are advantages that incumbents have relative to new entrants. 
There are seven major  sources:

1. Supply-side economies of scale. 
----------------------------------
These economies arise
when firms that produce at larger volumes enjoy lower costs
per unit because they can spread fixed costs over more units,
employ more efficient technology, or command better terms
from suppliers. Supply-side scale economies deter entry by
forcing the aspiring entrant either to come into the industry
on a large scale, which requires dislodging entrenched competitors, or to accept a cost disadvantage.
Scale economies can be found in virtually every activity
in the value chain; which ones are most important varies
by industry.1
 In microprocessors, incumbents such as Intel
are protected by scale economies in research, chip fabrication, and consumer marketing. For lawn care companies like
Scotts Miracle-Gro, the most important scale economies are
found in the supply chain and media advertising. In smallpackage delivery, economies of scale arise in national logistical systems and information technology.

2. Demand-side benefits of scale.  
----------------------------------
These benefits, also known
as **network effects**, arise in industries where a buyer’s willingness to pay for a company’s product increases with the number of other buyers who also patronize the company. Buyers
may trust larger companies more for a crucial product: Recall the old adage that no one ever got fired for buying from
IBM (when it was the dominant computer maker). Buyers
may also value being in a “network” with a larger number of
fellow customers. For instance, online auction participants
are attracted to eBay because it offers the most potential
trading partners. Demand-side benefits of scale discourage
entry by limiting the willingness of customers to buy from a
newcomer and by reducing the price the newcomer can command until it builds up a large base of customers.

3. Customer switching costs. 
---------------------------------
Switching costs are fixed costs
that buyers face when they change suppliers. Such costs may
arise because a buyer who switches vendors must, for example, alter product specifications, retrain employees to use
a new product, or modify processes or information systems.
The larger the switching costs, the harder it will be for an entrant to gain customers. Enterprise resource planning (ERP)
software is an example of a product with very high switching
costs. Once a company has installed SAP’s ERP system, for example, the costs of moving to a new vendor are astronomical
because of embedded data, the fact that internal processes
have been adapted to SAP, major retraining needs, and the
mission-critical nature of the applications.

4. Capital requirements.  
----------------------------------
The need to invest large financial resources in order to compete can deter new entrants.
Capital may be necessary not only for fixed facilities but also
to extend customer credit, build inventories, and fund startup losses. The barrier is particularly great if the capital is
required for unrecoverable and therefore harder-to-finance
expenditures, such as up-front advertising or research and
development. While major corporations have the financial
resources to invade almost any industry, the huge capital
requirements in certain fields limit the pool of likely entrants. Conversely, in such fields as tax preparation services
or short-haul trucking, capital requirements are minimal
and potential entrants plentiful.
It is important not to overstate the degree to which capital
requirements alone deter entry. If industry returns are attractive and are expected to remain so, and if capital markets
are efficient, investors will provide entrants with the funds
they need. For aspiring air carriers, for instance, financing
is available to purchase expensive aircraft because of their
high resale value, one reason why there have been numerous new airlines in almost every region.

5. Incumbency advantages independent of size. 
----------------------------------------------
No matter what their size, incumbents may have cost or quality advantages not available to potential rivals. These advantages can
stem from such sources as:

* proprietary technology, 
* preferential access to the best raw material sources, 
* preemption of the most favorable geographic locations, 
* established brand identities, or 
* cumulative experience 

that has allowed incumbents to learn how to produce more efficiently. Entrants try
to bypass such advantages. Upstart discounters such as Target and Wal-Mart, for example, have located stores in freestanding sites rather than regional shopping centers where
established department stores were well entrenched.

6. Unequal access to distribution channels. 
---------------------------------------------
The new entrant must, of course, secure distribution of its product or
service. A new food item, for example, must displace others
from the supermarket shelf via price breaks, promotions,
intense selling efforts, or some other means. The more limited the wholesale or retail channels are and the more that
existing competitors have tied them up, the tougher entry
into an industry will be. Sometimes access to distribution
is so high a barrier that new entrants must bypass distribution channels altogether or create their own. Thus, upstart
low-cost airlines have avoided distribution through travel
agents (who tend to favor established higher-fare carriers)
and have encouraged passengers to book their own fl ights
on the internet.

7. Restrictive government policy. 
----------------------------------------------
Government policy can
hinder or aid new entry directly, as well as amplify (or nullify) the other entry barriers. Government directly limits or
even forecloses entry into industries through, for instance,
licensing requirements and restrictions on foreign investment. Regulated industries like liquor retailing, taxi services,
and airlines are visible examples. Government policy can
heighten other entry barriers through such means as expansive patenting rules that protect proprietary technology from imitation or environmental or safety regulations
that raise scale economies facing newcomers. Of course,
government policies may also make entry easier – directly
through subsidies, for instance, or indirectly by funding basic research and making it available to all firms, new and old,
reducing scale economies.
