------------------------------------
| THE POWER OF BUYERS. 
------------------------------------
Powerful customers – the flip
side of powerful suppliers – can capture more value by forcing down prices, demanding better quality or more service
(thereby driving up costs), and generally playing industry
participants off against one another, all at the expense of
industry profitability. Buyers are powerful if they have negotiating leverage relative to industry participants, especially
if they are price sensitive, using their clout primarily to pressure price reductions.
As with suppliers, there may be distinct groups of customers who differ in bargaining power. 

A customer group has negotiating leverage if:

1. There are few buyers, or each one purchases in volumes that 
are large relative to the size of a single vendor. 
--------------------------------------------------------------
Large volume buyers are particularly powerful in industries with
high fixed costs, such as telecommunications equipment, offshore drilling, and bulk chemicals. High fixed costs and low
marginal costs amplify the pressure on rivals to keep capacity filled through discounting.

2.  The industry’s products are standardized or undifferentiated. 
------------------------------------------------------------------
If buyers believe they can always find an equivalent
product, they tend to play one vendor against another.

3.  Buyers face few switching costs in changing vendors
-----------------------------------------------------------

4.  Buyers can credibly threaten to integrate backward and
----------------------------------------------------------
produce the industry’s product themselves if vendors are
too profitable. Producers of soft drinks and beer have long
controlled the power of packaging manufacturers by threatening to make, and at times actually making, packaging materials themselves.

A buyer group is price sensitive if:

a) The product it purchases from the industry represents
a significant fraction of its cost structure or procurement
budget. Here buyers are likely to shop around and bargain
hard, as consumers do for home mortgages. Where the product sold by an industry is a small fraction of buyers’ costs or
expenditures, buyers are usually less price sensitive.

b)  The buyer group earns low profits, is strapped for cash,
or is otherwise under pressure to trim its purchasing costs.
Highly profitable or cash-rich customers, in contrast, are generally less price sensitive (that is, of course, if the item does
not represent a large fraction of their costs).

c) The quality of buyers’ products or services is little affected by the industry’s product. Where quality is very much
affected by the industry’s product, buyers are generally less
price sensitive. When purchasing or renting production quality cameras, for instance, makers of major motion pictures
opt for highly reliable equipment with the latest features.

d)  They pay limited attention to price.

e)  The industry’s product has little effect on the buyer’s
other costs. Here, buyers focus on price. Conversely, where
an industry’s product or service can pay for itself many times
over by improving performance or reducing labor, material,
or other costs, buyers are usually more interested in quality
than in price. Examples include products and services like tax
accounting or well logging (which measures below-ground
conditions of oil wells) that can save or even make the buyer
money. Similarly, buyers tend not to be price sensitive in services such as investment banking, where poor performance
can be costly and embarrassing

Most sources of buyer power apply equally to consumers and to business-to-business customers. Like industrial
customers, consumers tend to be more price sensitive if they are purchasing products that are undifferentiated, expensive
relative to their incomes, and of a sort where product performance has limited consequences. The major difference with
consumers is that their needs can be more intangible and harder to quantify.
Intermediate customers, or customers who purchase the product but are not the end user (such as assemblers or 
distribution channels), can be analyzed the same way as other buyers, with one important addition. 
Intermediate customers gain signifi cant bargaining power when they can infl uence the purchasing decisions of 
customers downstream. Consumer electronics retailers, jewelry retailers, and agriculturalequipment 
distributors are examples of distribution channels that exert a strong infl uence on end customers.

Producers often attempt to diminish channel clout
through exclusive arrangements with particular distributors
or retailers or by marketing directly to end users. Component manufacturers seek to develop power over assemblers
by creating preferences for their components with downstream customers. Such is the case with bicycle parts and
with sweeteners. DuPont has created enormous clout by
advertising its Stainmaster brand of carpet fi bers not only
to the carpet manufacturers that actually buy them but
also to downstream consumers. Many consumers request
Stainmaster carpet even though DuPont is not a carpet
manufacturer.
